We have two examples here of applying a cool arms loss on the first example here I want to find what
the forces acting between both of these charges.
So the purple one has a magnitude of zero point one micro cool on the green one here has three micro
cooling so significantly bigger.
So first of all if you were going to draw the direction of the force acting between these charges since
they're both positive you would have the force F acting on this one in that direction.
That would be my vector and again repulsive I would have the exact same magnitude but the force would
be in the opposite direction.
All right.
OK so now what I'm interested in here is what is the magnitude of that force F.
So I'm gonna use my second definition which was K Q1 Q2 and over R squared.
All right.
So now what we have to do is simply substitute our values over here.
So my k VALUE IS NINE TIMES 10 TO THE NINE.
I'M NOT GONNA BOTHER right in the units.
Q1 is the magnitude of one of these guys.
So that's zero point one times ten to the negative six columns.
That's the ten to the negative six is for the micro column and the other one is three.
Three times tend to the negative six micro column.
Now I can't forget to divide by that distance in this case the distance from center to center between
these two point charges is one point five meters.
So it's one point five meters and I have to square that term.
All right.
And that is going to give me the magnitude of this force F.
OK so we're going to put that my calculate I'm going to do right now.
So I'm going to do the one point five squared first and then I take the inverse of that and then I simply
have to multiply by everything in the numerator.
So at times nine either the nine times zero point one e to the negative six equals in times three either
the negative six OK.
If I put everything in the calculator and assuming that I've done things correctly over here I get one
point two times 10 to the negative three and that should be measured in Newton's at the end.
OK.
So that means that this force on this charges one point two times ten to the negative three.
And it's the same as this one just in an opposite direction right.
One point two times 10 to the negative three Newton's.
All right.
Pretty straightforward hopefully.
All right how about this one.
In this case here I've got a negative and a positive and I know that the force acting on those would
be attractive.
Right.
So on the positive one I'd have a force vector that's pointing to the left on the negative charge I'd
have a force vector that's pointing to the right the separation between both of these is given by three
meters.
And in this case I've given us what the forces My question is let's find what the magnitude of the charges
in this case here it's the same magnitude just one of them is positive.
And one of them is negative.
But they're going to be the same magnitude.
So how do we do this.
Well again using cool Ohm's Law I could start off simply by writing it.
K. again it's gonna be q TIMES Q So this is simply Q squared.
If the magnitude is the same in divided by our squared.
So what I'm gonna do is just rearrange is because what I'm trying to find is what the value of Q is.
I can start off by this Q squared.
Bring the r squared on the other side.
R squared and divided by that constant k in at the end to get rid of that square root that a squared
term all I have to do is take the square root on both sides my final expression should look something
like this.
So now I'm gonna start substituting in all my values so my forces three point six Newtons the distance
squared it's three squared and now divided by my constant K which is nine point zero times ten to the
nine.
Okay now let's try to do this one in the calculator again I'm going to do it right now so I'm gonna
get three points six times this term ends up being nine times nine and all of this gets divided by nine
and ten to the nine.
All right now DNA can't forget to take the square root.
So if I take my square root I should get a charge which is six point zero times I get ten to the negative
five.
And again that should be now measured in columns.
Okay so that means that the charge over here should be positive six point zero times ten to the five
columns.
And this guy here would be negative six point zero times ten to the negative five columns.
Okay.
So in this case I'm able to do this because I've actually told you that the magnitude is the same.
If the magnitude wasn't the same I would need some other information because I would have two unknowns.
I would have Q1 and Q2 and columns law.
Okay.
But if the problem tells you that the magnitude is the same you can make the simplification over here.